Boolean Logical Operations
Boolean logical operators, like AND and OR
are somewhat mysterious because Bash uses
them in a variety of ways.
One common use is in command lists,
which are chains of commands whose flow
is controlled by operators.
The pipe symbol is a commonly-used
operator in a command list
and passes the output of one command to
the input of another.
Similarly, boolean logical operators
execute commands based on whether
a previous command succeeded, meaning it
returned True or 0, or failed,
by returning False or non-zero.
Let’s take a look at the AND operator
first,
which executes a command only if the
previous command succeeds,
or returns True or 0.
In this example, we first assign the user
name we are searching for
to the user2 variable.
Next, we use grep to check if a certain
user is listed in the /etc/passwd file…
…and if it is, grep returns True and the
echo command is executed.
Now let’s try it with a condition that
returns false.
When we try searching for a user that we
know does not exist in /etc/passwd,
grep returns False and our echo command
is not executed.
When used in a command list, the OR
operator is the opposite of AND.
It executes the next command only if the
previous command failed,
meaning it returned False or non-zero.
In this example, we took our previous
command a step further and added
the OR operator followed by a second echo command.
Now, when grep does not find a matching
line and returns False,
the echo command after the OR operator is
executed instead of the one after AND.
These operators can also be used in a
test to compare variables
or the results of other tests.
When used this way, AND combines two
simple conditions,
and if they are both true, the combined
result is success, returning True or 0.
Consider this example:
In this example, we use AND to test
multiple conditions…
…and since both variable comparisons are
true,
the whole if line succeeds, so the then
branch will be executed.
We’ll make this script executable and run
it to see if our logic is sound.
It appears to have worked.
Great, let’s move on to the OR operator.
When used in a test,
the OR operator is used to test one or
more conditions
but only one of them has to be true to
count as success.
Let’s take a look at an example:
In this example, we use OR to test
multiple conditions.
Let’s give this a try.
Since one of the variable comparisons was true,
the whole if line succeeded,
so the then branch executed.